hi I'm Jill from Joe's home remedies
calm and today I have my daughter
Rebecca with me and we're gonna show you
how to make elderberry syrup what I have
done is taken half a cup of dried
elderberries and three cups of water
brought it to a boil and simmered it for
about 30 to 45 minutes and I'm having
her mash these elderberries just stick
to help release the good properties out
of the elderberries and so that's what
she's doing right now and so now we're
gonna strain the other ways you can use
you can use an old white cotton t-shirt
or you can use a fine strainer it has to
be something that won't allow the
elderberries to slip through it because
elder brews are very small berry so
we're just gonna put this through the
strainer like this and I want to get all
the other babies out of there because
I'm gonna have her just squeeze the
juice out of the elderberry do you want
to get all the good stuff out of it that
you can so she's just gonna press it out
with a spoon and I've been calling this
my homemade flu medicine and that is
because elder berries are a very strong
immune boosting herb they're good for
bronchitis are good for colds they're
good for coughs this syrup is good for
allergies and asthma but they're
especially good for the flu for
preventing it and treating the flu they
contain compounds that inhibit the flu
virus from invading the respiratory
tract and and the cell membranes so
they're just very very good thanks for
the flu and so I call it my homemade flu
medicine and when you take the syrup on
a daily basis it can help prevent the
flu and I know many people that just
promise that if you take it every day
you will not get the flu and so that's
what I like to do and so she's she's
gotten all the good stuff out of the
berries and so what I'm gonna do is mix
one cup of honey of raw honey into this
syrup and the honey acts as a
preservative to help the juice last
longer
the refrigerator and it also raw honey
it's very good for allergies and asthma
and you can use raw honey just for
different ailments and medicine all by
itself so it's just a very good thing so
scoop all that in there and my
elderberry syrup is still hot so it'll
mix in better and a recipe that I
actually recommend more than this is
adding apple cider vinegar into it and
you might wonder well then why are you
making it with just honey if it's good
to add apple cider vinegar also well one
of my daughters does not like the syrup
with the apple cider vinegar in it I
think it tastes yummy it doesn't have
very much vinegar in it and I think it
tastes really good but she just has a
hard time with it she likes the cider
vinegar by itself but mixed with the
honey and the elderberry she just has a
hard time taking it so I thought that
would be nice and make her a jar without
the apple cider vinegar in it but the
apple cider vinegar
it contains living enzymes just like the
raw honey that is going to make it an
even healthier syrup and it also
preserves it longer so with the
elderberry syrup made with just honey
it's good in the fridge for three months
and with the honey and the apple cider
vinegar you can keep it in the
refrigerator for six months so I know
people I have read of people that take
the syrup specifically with the honey
and the apricot apple cider vinegar and
they I have been able to throw away
their asthma and their allergy medicine
because
taking on a daily basis and just help
them that much with allergies and asthma
and so all you do after you mix that is
you just pour it into a jar and lid on
it and it's a good idea to label it and
put the date on it that you made it so
you remember that it expires with honey
like I said it expires in about three
months with the honey and the vinegar
expires in six months and it's
recommended to take a tablespoon a day
for adults and a teaspoon a day for
children and if you get the flu or get a
cold you can take that dosage on an
hourly basis and there's even you know
same people I've read they've just been
really really sick and they've taken it
every 15 minutes you know this is
obviously just an elderberry herb that's
safe to take as much as you want it's
not one of those herbs that you have to
be careful you know that you only want
to take it for a few weeks and then it
just has honey and then if you do the
vinegar obviously those are things that
you can take on a daily basis so you
know like I said I know people that have
taken the dose forever even every 15
minutes to help them get over whatever
they have going on and like I said you
can buy dried other berries we have an
elder or a bush out in the woods but
this summer we had such extreme heat and
dry weather that it did not do good I
went out there was checking on it
waiting to pick it and when I went out
there one day it was just all shriveled
up and I was so disappointed so I had to
buy the other berries dried but if you
don't have an elderberry bush
I really recommend buying one and
planting at you even if you don't have
very much land you can plant when it's a
beautiful plant with white flowers on it
and they turn into elderberries at the
end of the summer and it's a way that
you can be self-sufficient if you grow
your own elder brace because there could
come a day when we can't buy our own
dried other berries and so if you have
your own you can harvest it and make it
from fresh other berries or you can dry
the other berries and then make the
syrup throughout the winter with the
dried other berries and
something I really recommend that if you
don't have your own elderberry bush that
you do plant your own um but this cost
me I was gonna say to make cost me seven
or eight dollars I figured up at the
very most to make this and I know that
I've seen in a health food store and
eight ounce of elderberry juice for
about fifteen dollars and so this is a
lot more than eight ounces and I only
spent seven or eight dollars making it
so you can make things so easily for a
lot less money than buying it and I used
to be so intimidated thinking oh I can
never make something like that I just
like I had to have some kind of
schooling or or training but it's not
true it's so easy I am just a simple
stay-at-home wife and mother
and it's very easy to make your own
stuff don't be intimidated by you